Update performance@f7N4pAp_jBlT8_8owAcbG.md (#7777)
kamranahmedse/developer-roadmap: src/data/roadmaps/vue/content/performance@f7N4pAp_jBlT8_8owAcbG.md

# Vue.js Performance Optimization

Optimizing performance in Vue.js applications is crucial for delivering a smooth user experience. Here are the key techniques and best practices to improve Vue.js performance.

## Lazy Loading Components

Lazy loading delays the loading of components until they are needed, reducing the initial loading time of the application.

Example of dynamic import:
```javascript
const Component = () => import('./Component.vue');
```

For Vue Router:
```javascript
const routes = [
  {
    path: '/path',
    component: () => import('./Component.vue')
  }
];
```

Learn more:
- [How to Optimize Performance in Vue.js Applications: Beginner to Advanced Guide](https://dev.to/delia_code/how-to-optimize-performance-in-vuejs-applications-beginner-to-advanced-guide-53db)

---

> ## Optimizing Component Rendering
> 
> Avoid unnecessary re-renders using these directives:
> - **v-if** and **v-show**: Use `v-if` for conditional rendering and `v-show` for toggling visibility without removing from the DOM.
> - **v-once**: Renders an element only once, useful for static content.
> 
> Learn more:
> - [Vue Directives Basics](https://vuejs.org/guide/best-practices/performance.html)
> 
> ---
> 
> ## State Management
> 
> Efficient state management impacts application performance significantly. Use modern libraries like **Pinia** for better integration with Vue 3.
> 
> Learn more:
> - [Pinia Documentation](https://pinia.vuejs.org/)
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Bundle Size Optimization
> 
> Reducing the bundle size speeds up application loading. Use techniques like:
> - **Code Splitting**: Split the code into smaller parts loaded on demand.
> - **Tree Shaking**: Remove unused code.
> - **Lazy Loading**: Load components asynchronously when needed.
> 
> Learn more:
> - [Webpack Documentation](https://webpack.js.org/)
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Virtual Scrolling
> 
> When rendering long lists or tables, use virtual scrolling to render only the visible elements. This reduces DOM overhead and improves performance.
> 
> Learn more:
> - [Vue Virtual Scroller](https://github.com/Akryum/vue-virtual-scroller)
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Performance Monitoring
> 
> Regularly monitor your application's performance to identify bottlenecks. Tools like **Vue Devtools** and **Chrome DevTools Performance Panel** are essential for analysis.
> 
> Learn more:
> - [Vue Devtools Documentation](https://devtools.vuejs.org/)
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Minimizing Dependencies
> 
> Minimize the use of external libraries and dependencies to reduce the bundle size and improve application performance.
> 
> Learn more:
> - [Vue Best Practices](https://vuejs.org/guide/best-practices/overview.html)
> 
> ---
> 
> By implementing these techniques, you can optimize the performance of Vue.js applications and enhance user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Vue.js Performance Optimization Overview

Key areas to improve Vue.js performance include lazy loading components to minimize initial load times, optimizing rendering to prevent unnecessary re-renders, implementing efficient state management using modern libraries like Pinia, reducing the bundle size by code splitting and tree shaking, utilizing virtual scrolling for large lists and tables, continuously monitoring performance to detect potential bottlenecks, and minimizing dependencies to decrease overall load.

Learn more from the following resources:

- [How to Optimize Performance in Vue.js Applications: Beginner to Advanced Guide](https://dev.to/delia_code/how-to-optimize-performance-in-vuejs-applications-beginner-to-advanced-guide-53db)
- [Vue Directives Basics](https://vuejs.org/guide/best-practices/performance.html)
- [Pinia Documentation](https://pinia.vuejs.org/)
- [Webpack Documentation](https://webpack.js.org/)
- [Vue Virtual Scroller](https://github.com/Akryum/vue-virtual-scroller)
- [Vue Devtools Documentation](https://devtools.vuejs.org/)
- [Vue Best Practices](https://vuejs.org/guide/best-practices/overview.html)
```

Reviewer: Please have a look at the contribution docs.
